---
layout: default
title: Best Practices
sorting: 100
published: true
tags: [cfengine enterprise, best practices, user interface, mission portal]
---

* [Version Control and Configuration Policy][Best Practices#Version Control and Configuration Policy]
* [Scalability][Best Practices#Scalability]

## Version Control and Configuration Policy ##

CFEngine users version their policies.  It's a reasonable, easy thing
to do: you just put `/var/cfengine/masterfiles` under version control
and... you're done?

What do you think?  How do you version your own infrastructure?

### Problem statement ###

It turns out everyone likes convenience and writing the versioning
machinery is hard.  So for CFEngine Enterprise 3.6 we set out to
provide version control integration with Git out of the box, disabled
by default.  This allows users to use branches for separate hubs
(which enables a policy release pipeline) and enables Design Center
integration.

### Release pipeline ###

A build and release pipeline is how software is typically delivered to
production through testing stages.  In the case of CFEngine, policies
are the software.  Users have at least two stages, development and
production, but typically the sequence has more stages including
various forms of testing/QA and pre-production.

## Design Center ##

The CFEngine Design Center is a way to augment your policies (in a way
that does not conflict or override your own policies) through a GUI,
using modular testable policies called sketches.  It's like a Perl
CPAN for CFEngine but with a GUI and awesome sauce mixed in.

### How to enable it ###

To enable masterfiles versioning, you have to plan a little bit. These
are the steps:

#### Choose your repository ###

You have two options: use the default local Git repository which comes
with CFEngine Enterprise, or use a remote Git repository accessible
via the `git` or `https` protocol.  The first option is good for
getting started quickly, but we strongly recommend the second option:
using a remote repository, populated with the contents of the `3.6.x`
branch of our masterfiles repository at
https://github.com/cfengine/masterfiles.

##### Using the default local Git repository ####

The default repository is a local directory on the hub and set up by
the `cfengine-hub` package.  It's the default in the Mission Portal
VCS integration panel and resides in `/opt/cfengine/masterfiles.git`.

**PLEASE NOTE: you must use user "cfapache" to interact with this
repository safely on the hub.**

You do not have to do anything to set up this repository - it's
already preconfigured and prepopulated out of the box. You just need
to enable VCS deployments as described below.

To check out this default repository, run the following commands on
your hub (everything needs to be run as user `cfapache` for the
permissions to be set correctly. The first two commands setup some
basic information needed by git to manipulate the repository):

    su - cfapache
    git config --global user.email "your@email.address"
    git config --global user.name "Your Name"
    git clone /opt/cfengine/masterfiles.git

And then make all the changes in the checked-out `masterfiles`
repository.

##### Using a remote repository ####

To use a remote repository, you must enter its address, login
credentials and the branch you want to use in the Mission Portal VCS
integration panel. To access it, click on "Settings" in the top-left
menu of the Mission Portal screen, and then select "Version control
repository". This screen by default contains the settings for using
the built-in local repository.

![Settings menu](settings-menu.png)

![VCS settings screen](settings-vcs.png)

#### Make sure your current masterfiles are in the chosen repository ###

This is critical.  When you start auto-deploying policy, you **will**
overwrite your current `/var/cfengine/masterfiles`.  So take the
current contents thereof and make sure they are in the Git repository
you chose in the previous step.

For example, if you create a new repository in GitHub by following the
instructions from https://help.github.com/articles/create-a-repo, you
can add the contents of `masterfiles` to it with the following
commands (assuming you are already in your local repository checkout):

    cp -r /var/cfengine/masterfiles/* .
    git add *
    git commit -m 'Initial masterfiles check in'
    git push origin master

#### Enable VCS deployments in the versioned `update.cf` ###

In the file `update_def.cf` under a version-specific subdirectory of
<code>controls/</code> in your version-controlled masterfiles, change

    #"cfengine_internal_masterfiles_update" expression => "enterprise.!(cfengine_3_4|cfengine_3_5)";
    "cfengine_internal_masterfiles_update" expression => "!any";

to

    "cfengine_internal_masterfiles_update" expression => "enterprise.!(cfengine_3_4|cfengine_3_5)";
    #"cfengine_internal_masterfiles_update" expression => "!any";

This is simply commenting out one line and uncommenting another.

Remember that you need to commit and push these changes to the
repository you chose in the previous step, so that they are picked up
when you deploy from the git repository. In your checked out
`masterfiles` git repository, these commands should normally do the
trick:

    git add update.cf
    git commit -m 'Enabled auto-policy updates'
    git push origin master

Now you need to do the first-time deployment, whereupon this new
`update.cf` and the rest of your versioned masterfiles will overwrite
`/var/cfengine/masterfiles`.  We made that easy too, using standard
CFEngine tools. Exit the `cfapache` account and run the following
command as `root` on your hub:

    cf-agent -Dcfengine_internal_masterfiles_update -f update.cf

Easy, right?  You're done, from now on every time `update.cf` is run
(by default, every 5 minutes) it will check out the repository and
branch you configured in the Mission Portal VCS integration panel.

Please note all the work is done as user `cfapache` except the very
last step of writing into `/var/cfengine/masterfiles`.

#### How it works ##

The code is fairly simple and can even be modified if you have special
requirements (e.g. Subversion integration).  But out of the box there
are three important components. All the scripts below are stored under
`/var/cfengine/httpd/htdocs/api/dc-scripts/` in your CFEngine
Enterprise hub.

##### `common.sh` ###

The script `common.sh` is loaded by the deployment script and does two
things.  First, it redirects all output to
`/var/cfengine/outputs/dc-scripts.log`.  So if you have problems,
check there first.

Second, the script sources `/opt/cfengine/dc-scripts/params.sh` where
the essential parameters like repository address and branch live.
That file is written out by the Mission Portal VCS integration panel,
so it's the connection between the Mission Portal GUI and the
underlying scripts.

##### `masterfiles-stage.sh` ###

This script is called to deploy the masterfiles from VCS to
`/var/cfengine/masterfiles`.  It's fairly complicated and does not
depend on CFEngine itself by design; for instance it uses `rsync` to
deploy the policies.  You may want to review and even modify it, for
example choosing to reject deployments that are too different from the
current version (which could indicate a catastrophic failure or
misconfiguration).

This script also validates the policies using `cf-promises -T`.  That
command looks in a directory and ensures that `promises.cf` in the
directory is valid.  If it's not, an error will go in the log file and
the script exits.

**NOTE** this means that clients will **never** get invalid policies
  according to the hub, although a 3.5 or older client could still
  receive policies that are only valid in 3.6.  So make sure you test
  with 3.5 or older if you anticipate that problem during migration,
  but in a homogeneous client population this is a wonderful
  guarantee.

##### `pre-fetch.sh` and `post-update.sh` ###

These scripts are run by the Mission Portal whenever the user
configures sketches.  They enable the Mission Portal to check out the
policies, make changes to them, and then commit and push them back.

### Design Center integration ##

The Design Center integration Just Works when you follow the procedure
above to enable the VCS integration.  You can then go into the Mission
Portal, configure any sketch, and voila, in minutes that sketch will
be activated across your infrastructure.

### Manual policy changes ###

If you want to make manual changes to your policies, simply make those
changes in a checkout of your masterfiles repository, commit and push
the changes. The next time `update.cf` runs, your changes will be
checked out and in minutes distributed through your entire
infrastructure.

### Benefits ###

To conclude, let's summmarize the benefits of versioning your
masterfiles using the built-in facilities in CFEngine Enterprise 3.6

* easy to use compared to home-grown VCS integration
* supports Git out of the box and, with some work, can support others
  like Subversion
* tested, reliable, and built-in
* Design Center integration
* supports any repository and branch per hub
* your policies are validated before deployment
* integration happens through shell scripts and `update.cf`, not C
  code or special policies

## Scalability ##

When running CFEngine Enterprise in a large-scale IT environment with many thousands of hosts, certain issues arise that require different approaches compared with smaller installations.

With CFEngine 3.6, significant testing was performed to identify the issues surrounding scalability and to determine best practices in large-scale installations of CFEngine.


### Moving PostgreSQL to Separate Hard Drive ###

Moving the PostgreSQL database to another physical hard drive from the other CFEngine components can improve the stability of large-scale installations, particularly when using a solid-state drive (SSD) for hosting the PostgreSQL database.

The data access involves a huge number of random IO operations, with small chunks of data. SSD may give the best performance because it is designed for these types of scenarios.

*Important*: The PostgreSQL data files are in `/var/cfengine/state/pg/` by default. Before moving the mount point, please make sure that all CFEngine processes (including PostgreSQL) are stopped and the existing data files are copied to the new location.

### Setting the splaytime ###

The `splaytime` tells CFEngine hosts the base interval over which they will communicate with the `policy server`, which they then use to "splay" or hash their own runtimes.

Thus when `splaytime` is set to 4, 1000 hosts will hash their run attempts evenly over 4 minutes, and each minute will see about 250 hosts make a run attempt.  In effect, the hosts will attempt to communicate with the policy server and run their own policies in predictable "waves."  This limits the number of concurrent connections and overall system load at any given moment.
