---
layout: default
title: CFEngine Directory Structure
categories: [Overviews, System Overview, CFEngine Directory Structure]
published: true
sorting: 30
alias: overviews-system-directory-structure.html
tags: [overviews, system, system overview, directory structure]
---

The CFEngine application is fully contained within the /var/cfengine directory tree. Here is a quick breakdown of the directory structure and some of the files and functions associated with each subdirectory.

## Components ##

/var/cfengine/bin - Consists of the agents and daemons that run CFEngine, including:

cf-agent - Agent: Executes the promises.cf file; ensures that all promises are being kept
cf-execd - Daemon: Starts the cf-agent process at a specified time interval.
cf-serverd - Daemon: Provides network services; used to distribute policy and data files
cf-monitord - Daemon: Collects system statistics
cf-promises - Agent: Verifies CFEngine's configuration syntax
cf-runagent - Agent: Contacts a remote system to run cf-agent
cf-report - Agent: Extracts and presents report data in HTML,XML or graph formats

See Also: [The CFEngine Components][The CFEngine Components]

## Directories ##

```/var/cfengine/masterfiles```
    Policy repository which grants access to local or bootstrapped CFEngine clients when they need to update their policies. Policies obtained from /var/cfengine/masterfiles are then cached in /var/cfengine/inputs for local policy execution. The cf-agent executable does not execute policies directly from this repository.
```/var/cfengine/inputs```
    Cached policy repository located on a CFEngine client. The cf-agent executable executes policies from this repository.
```/var/cfengine/outputs```
    Directory where cf-agent creates its output files.
```/var/cfengine/ppkeys```
    Directory used to store encrypted public/private keys for CFEngine client/server network communications.
```/var/cfengine/reports```
    Directory used to store reports generated by cf-report .
```/var/cfengine/lib```
    Directory to store shared objects and dependencies that are in the bundled packages. 
	
See Also: [CFEngine Files, Directories and Logs][CFEngine Files, Directories and Logs]	
