---
layout: default
title: Orchestration
published: true
sorting: 80
tags: [overviews, special topics, guide]
---

## What is organizational complexity?

Complexity is a measure of the amount of information needed to explain
something. It implies a "mental cost" (and therefore a time and monetary cost)
to comprehend a pattern of structure and behaviour.

The term organization has two distinct meanings in English: it can be intended
as a euphemism for an institution or a business, and it can be intended to mean
an ordered structural pattern (i.e. the state of being organized). To avoid
confusion, we shall refer to businesses and public institutions as enterprises,
and use the term organization to mean an architectural pattern with a certain
level of complexity.

Organizational Complexity is therefore the amount of information, and hence
cost, needed to manage an enterprise or system. In information science, the
complexity of a system is commonly defined as the length of the shortest
document that fully describes it. A complex system requires a long document to
capture its workings; a simple system requires only a short document.

## What is federation?

A federation is a pattern of organization obtained by merging a number of
initially independent parts. The implication is that the resulting organization
is not a singular rigid unit, but rather a more loosely coupled collective of
autonomous parts.

Federation is a natural structure for any enterprise that has parts with
fundamentally different functions or orgins. It can also be a stepping stone on
the way from a set of independent actors to a state of unified integration.

Companies that merge or acquire other companies, as well as companies that
reorganize to outsource tasks are natural candidates for federated management.

Promise theory predicts that a federated organization is naturally service
oriented, with two main architectures:

* The different parts of the collective bind together by promising each other
  services.

* The parts offer services to external parties, but are bound together by
  promising to coordinate with a central entity.

* Coordination, hierarchy and centralization

Federated parts of an enterprise are said to be coordinated by an entity, if
they receive common information from it. Merely delivering services (i.e.
keeping promises) to a common entity does not lead to coordination. Think of an
orchestra. The conductor does not bring about any coordination simply by
listening, but rather by providing common signals to the federated agents. On
the other hand, the conductor is a bottleneck who throttles the productivity of
the federated agents. If the agents rely too much on the conductor, or are
discouraged from acting independently, the amplification of effort is lost.

![Coordination implies common knowledge](./coordination.png)

The need for coordination is often exaggerated in human organizations - it comes
from an unrealistic desire to absolutely determine the outcome of decisions.
Realistically, it is only a means to bring consistency to distributed parts.

In ITIL and current IT parlance, a central hub containing coordination
information is called a Configuration Management Database (CMDB). The term CMDB
refers to a range of quite different approaches to coordinating information that
will not be discussed here. In Object Orientation, the term inheritance is used
to signify the use of common information by federated parts.

It is possible for federated parts to inherit coordinating information from more
than one source, just as it is possible for someone to have two different jobs.
In that case, one must be careful to avoid conflicting directions. As
organizational complexity grows, the possibility of conflicting direction and
expectation also grows unless strict principles are adhered to.

Promise Theory tells us that such conflicts can only be resolved by a party
receiving information, not by the parties sending it. This leads to the model
known as "voluntary cooperation" used by CFEngine, which implies that each
federated part must effectively choose which inputs it is willing to use from
external parties.

## The authority paradox

For some, the idea that an organization should be built on voluntary cooperation
sounds wrong. However, no matter how much we might crave certainty of outcome,
making demands on the compliance of federated parts does nothing to improve that
certainty; indeed, it can have the reverse effect. The confusion lies in a
misunderstanding of desired authority over the actual power to change, i.e. in
what is intended or desired and what is actually possible. Promise Theory
resolves this confusion by building a model based directly on the agents that
can effect change.

Authority is about who, in an enterprise, may decide what is intended. Most
people perceive authority through hierarchies or "chains of command" in which
the top of the hierarchical pyramid is the master, and the layers below must
follow: those at the top are more powerful than those on the bottom. This is a
cultural prejudice. However this perception is, at best misleading, and in fact
is incorrect.

Humans have been organizing things into hierarchies for most of recorded
history. We have a deeply held notion that favours hierarchies as an
organizational form. It is worth examining why. In early times the upper
echelons of hierarchy were the strong and the educated, served by a relatively
unspecialised workforce. They wielded their power by guile and by violent force,
and the lower layers cowered in fear. From Kings and leaders to middle managers
and class-system underdogs, institutions and government, documents and tables of
contents, everywhere we look we see hierarchical structures.

![The authority paradox](./authority-paradox.png)

Today, education and peaceful society turns the reality of the power hierarchy
upside down: the true specialists are at the bottom of the hierarchy, closer to
the levers and the expertise to effect change. Today "low level" means more
specialised, not less educated. Low level experts are held together by
relatively unspecialised "managers" who serve mainly as coordinators and
communications links. However, the culture and perception of authority from the
top remains today.

These changes create a paradox in modern systems. The leadership of intent is
assumed to come from above, but the real power to act is down below. This
necessitates the binding together of organizations by a social contract of
voluntary cooperation.

The same is true in computer systems. Most system designs assume that the point
of command will be placed at the top of an organizational tree, and that every
part of the system (represented in the branches and leaves) will follow the
commands made from the top. This turns out to be a poor model because, in
reality, the top has neither the knowledge nor the proximity to enforce changes
below.

No central management of either enterprise or computers can force individual
agents to comply with their wishes, without their low level consent. The
perception of authority is thus only a fiction1.

## The social contract

Social contracts lie at the heart of all human and computer organizations. For
computers these contracts may be as simple as "access control settings",
nonetheless there are human politics behind them. Most enterprises struggle more
with their internal sociology (or politics) than with their technological
solutions.

When an organization is formed by merging independent parts, this is especially
important. The loss of identity and the feeling of loss of autonomy by these
parts can fuel a breakdown of the social contract - i.e. a loss of loss of
voluntary cooperation. In terms of system management, it therefore makes sense
to preserve as much of the identity and autonomy of the parts as possible.

From an information perspective, this is also the lowest cost solution. The
expertise to run the merged entity already exists within it2, and the proximity
to make change is automatic, so to increase the organizational distance between
decision, expertise and change will at best lead to increased overhead and at
worst lead to the disconnection of decision making from expertise.

Low level autonomy is a cost saving strategy that reduces the overhead of
management and improves the link between expertise and action.

## Service oriented federation

Service oriented means business oriented. Let us now consider what this means
for IT configuration. In particular, how should a CFEngine configuration be
structured for an efficient organization? In the examples below, we shall adopt
a service oriented view, in which an enterprise is organized as a set of
federated entities, some of whom depend on each other for services.

## Each part disconnected, providing services

Each federated entity manages its own promises.cf file. Each has, in effect, its
own independent CFEngine configuration.

Independent configurations - complete autonomy

The configuration may still use resources provided by other entities' machines,
but the other entities have no influence on the set of promises used to maintain
any given one.

## Disconnected parts inheriting a single baseline

A more common model for federation is to have a baseline constitution for all
the parts of the enterprise defined by an umbrella organization. We can refer to
this as a "global infrastructure" service.

Traditionally (i.e. hierarchically) one would think of this global entity as
being superior to the other entities, i.e. making them subordinate, but this is
not necessary, nor correct according to the reality. The role of the global
service is rather to provide a point of consistent coordination, or centralized
expertise to the others. Compliance with the proposals of the global coordinator
will be assured if it plays a valuable roles.

Since the real power to change still lies in the hands of the federated
entities, the global infrastructure unit must build a social contract with them
to assure that its wishes are complied with. This goal is attended to by making
the global entity a valued service for the federated entities. If the global
service is perceived as being of no value, it will be ignored.

The next step from full autonomy is thus to use methods that have been defined
by an enterprise-wide global infrastructure service.

![Independent configurations using a common baseline](./fed2.png)

```cf3
#
# Federated promises.cf
#

 bundle agent main
 {
 files:

   "$(sys.workdir)/inputs/baseline.cf"

      copy_from => remote_cp(
                            "/masterfiles/baseline.cf",
                            "central_service.example.com"
                            );
 methods:

  # Inherit the baseline constitution

  "baseline" usebundle => company_baseline;

  # All other local promises here ....
 }
```

The CFEngine code snippet above represents the CFEngine configuration for any of
the hosts in one of the federated departments. The configuration is extremely
simple. It begins by downloading the baseline.cf configuration, provided by the
global infrastructure service, and then goes on to promise to use this as a
"method". Finally, the major part of the configuration is the set of special
promises determined by the department itself. Federation is thus technically
trivial. The difficulties are rather conceptual and sociological.

Let us remark on the likelihood for conflict. Although the source of the
baseline is external, CFEngine configuration promises are always implemented by
the federated departments themselves, none are (or can be) implemented by any
external party such as the infrastructure service. Thus, it is the
responsibility of federated departments to ensure that there are no conflicts
between the baseline and their own promises. Moreover, as the parts have no
power to change the baseline, but have agreed to follow it, the logical outcome
must be that their own special promises must not conflict with the global
infrastructure proposal. So all requirements are met without the need for
central enforcement.

## Handling multiple sources

Consider briefly the case in which there is more than one entity offering
promise proposals. If a part of the federation serves two masters (see
department 3 in the figure below), i.e. it promises to implement the wishes of
two external sources, then those sources must either agree one hundred percent
in their proposals, or they must not overlap at all. Since these "masters" may
or may not be coordinated, it is up to the federated entity (department 3) to
make the decision about which of the sources to obey.

![Multiple inheritance can lead to incorrect expectations](./fed3.png)

The possiblity of conflict is easily handled in this architecture, because it
recognizes that the federated entity must be the final arbiter of confict.

## Global assurance

The lack of a hierarchy has not made information chaotic and disorganized. It
has only provided a simple means of scalability and conflict resolution.

So what makes a federation different from a collection of completely independent
enterprises? The answer to this question us usually some minimum set of common
promises that all parts of the federation must keep: a baseline constitution.

Now, since the real power lies in the leaves of the organizational tree, but the
designated authority lies at the root, the root needs to monitor the behaviour
of the federated entities to ensure that this baseline constition is being
complied with. This can be handled by performing an audit of the whole
federation according to a single standard3.

CFEngine allows single-point-of-coodination monitoring of hosts by a variety of
mechanisms, so that compliance can be assured.

## Merging and dividing enterprises

Autonomy makes the merging and division of enterprise systems trivial. It is the
way to enable out-sourcing and in-sourcing.

Imagine trying to combine two cups of coffee. Now try combining two combine two
buildings or houses of cards. Coffee mixes easily because it is not full of
dependencies (bonds) between its parts. Buildings are not fluid: at best one can
build bridges between them, and try to build something else around them and then
take them apart. The same applies to any system, whether human, software or
mechanical.

To merge two systems or enterprises, it will be much simpler if they are fluid
to begin with - i.e. they are basically composed of autonomous parts, loosely
coupled, not rigidly joined together. Hierarchical organization is rigid, like a
house of cards. Service-oriented systems are loosely coupled. By keeping the
internal organization of systems as far as possible like independent service
atoms, you facilitate reorganization by merging and division.

## Why federation does not reduce predictabilty

The fear that many traditionalists have of federated management is that they
cannot be certain of the outcome unless they have absolute authority. This fear
is misplaced however. Certainty of outcome does not depend on whether authority
is federated or not: there are many reasons why outcomes fail to be realized,
including misunderstandings, accidents, force majeur and simple disagreements.

Certain knowledge can only be obtained by observing the results directly4, and
repairing the system if promises have not been kept. Trying to enforce rules and
command from above is an expensive and often ineffective way to manage systems,
like swimming against the current. Trust in the federated system reduces the
cost of verifying one's assumptions.

Hierarchies are sometimes used for oversight. Just as a conductor takes care of
the big picture for his orchestra, so managers in a hierarchy can use their
position to coordinate the larger picture for their subordinates. However, like
the orchestra, the manager should not think that he has a real influence on the
outcome. As long as each player has the script and the instruments, the music
can go on for quite some time without its conductor. The role of a manager is
one of advice.

Rules of thumb for scalable management:

* Use autonomy to scale: proximity to the affected area avoids unnecessary
  dependency and transport of materials. Trust costs less.

* If you need to enforce a common baseline (or constitution) for all, then
  arrange this as a service, not as a punitive force. Use local caching and the
  principal of convergence to a desired state (idempotence) to provide assurance
  without the cost of monitoring.

* Trust lowers costs.

## The benefits of federated management

Hierarchy is familiar, but not essential. A hierarchy is only a so-called
"spanning tree" for a more general network of relationships. It may be thought
of as one possible point of view, amongst many - one way of traversing a network
of relationships.

A federated organization is automatically specialized into departments, each of
which knows its requirements best.

One could take an enterprise and divide it into skill-areas or departments, then
divide each department into geopgraphical teams. Conversely, we could divide the
enterprise by country first and subdivide each country into regions, then divide
these into skills. There is no unique way to traverse the enterprise. In truth,
it is not a hierarchy, but a network of relationships.

If the federated teams or clusters in an enterprise have sufficient autonomy,
both in resources and intended authority, then they don't need to communicate
with or wait for other parts to do their jobs. Forcing that communication, due
to lack of trust, will add overhead and increase costs, without improving the
certainty of outcome.

Promise Theory tells us that organization by autonomy automatically indentifies
the parts of a system that can operate independently - i.e., the essential
"atoms" of the system. Thus, it is a method for identifying the raw material
building blocks from which everything else can be built. Starting with these
available raw materials, it encourages a rational approach to design of systems
that are efficient and service oriented.

Footnotes

[1] Think of an orchestra. The real expertise lies in the players (below). The
conductor (above) offers coordination and guidance, but has no real power to
create music. Music is possible because each player has his/her own copy of the
script, and can work autonomously, with only a little guidance.

[2] At least we may assume this.

[3] Think, once again, about the orchestra. The conductor observes the behaviour
of each autonomous player to determine whether the orchestra is playing together
and is playing the same piece of music.

[4] This is why society needs a police force to monitor and respond to those who
do not obey proposed law - whether they have promised to or not. This is the
role of CFEngine.
